# CSc102_GroupProject
This repository is meant for the group to collaborate and keep up with version control for the 2018 CSc102 group project.

Group name: [Cyber-Poets]
Group members: [Isabelle Mohr, Julian Herr, Liam Head]
Group mentor: [Matt Doherty]
Project title: [In Accordance With Concordancers]
Project page: [https://github.com/g18h6284/CSc102_GroupProject]
Instructions for use (allowable actions): [
Our program aims to allow users to sort through large bodies of text to find significant patterns. Upload any file with a .txt extension by selecting 'Load File' from the 'File' menu. Browse for your desired file (note: with .txt extension). First, create a frequency list by clicking on the 'Word List' column, and click 'Start', which will present a list of all the words within your text from most frequently occurring to least frequent, noting their frequencies on the right hand side, and their rank to the left of each word. This will allow you to see which words are most frequently used in your text file, as well as how many different words have been used in your text. Next, click on the 'Concordance' column, and add your desired search term in the text box in the botttom left corner, and adjust your search window size (which will present a selected number of characters to the left and to the right), and click 'Start' to present the concordance lines. Following this, concordance lines can be sorted alphabetically, either depending on the word to the left or the word to the right of your search term. Do this by selecting 'Left' or 'Right' and then clicking the 'Sort' button. The program then allows you to create a collocate list, by selecting the 'Collocates' column and entering a search term. Collocates are words that frequently occur around a search term, and more frequently than by chance, by using an MI score to compare the occurrence of words surrounding the search term to their occurrence elsewhere in the text. Thus, select a search window between 5 and 10, which will consider the selected number of words to the left and to the right of the search term for each of its occurrences. Also select your minimum significance score between 5 and 10, which will determine the threshold for which collocates will be listed. By clicking the 'Start' button, the program will present all significant collocates up to the selected threshold in a list form. Finally, any of the three lists compiled may be downloaded and written to a file by selecting the 'Save to File' option from the 'File' menu. We hope you find many interesting patterns.


//Provide DETAILED  instructions on how to run AND interact with your program. If we cannot run it with relative ease, it will NOT //be marked! So if it needs to be saved in a specific folder, or needs Internet access, or needs anything beyond simply double //clicking the executable, document all that here. This is very IMPORTANT! Also, list all forms of interaction here, so if your //program allows the user to press ‘Q’ to exit, or ‘left arrow’ or ‘right arrow’ to do specific things, document that here as well. //If we cannot figure out how to interact with your program and nothing is documented, it will NOT be marked!]
Tools used: [.NET framework ...]
Concepts used: [Lists, Files, Recursion, Dictionaries, Custom classes, Enum type]
Assumptions: [Hopefully, this program will be used to look at texts from a more scientific point of view, to point to patterns within some genre, and to substantiate some claims made concerning discourse and other linguistic features. The ability too load any text of your choice should inspire a fair amount of intrigue.]
Limitations: [Some limitations could be that the frequency list and collocate list may take a little while to compile, which is something that may need revision. Other limitations are that functionalities within other freewares (such as SketchEngine and AntConc) provide many more features that aid in the processing of large amounts of text, and which were not included within this program, mostly resulting from time constraints.]
